Once we have our list of repos,
they'll end up in this repos variable.
And then we can turn that into markup.
So I'm gonna just create
a variable called markup, and
we will use our repos, and
I'm gonna map over each one.
The formatting gets a little wonky
on this, but just bear with me.
So I want each of these to be a list item.
And I know that I'm kind of doing
some goofy stuff with writing
markup inside of templates,
instead of creating HTML elements.
I wanted this to be a quick example, so
we're kinda taking some shortcuts here.
And inside of it,
we wanna link to each repo, so
we will do a link to the HTML URL for
the repo.
And then we're gonna
display the repo name.
And then let's also show
the number of stars.
So I'm gonna open up my emoji palette
which is command CTRL + Space.
Let's grab a star.
You can judge me for my most use and
then I'm gonna get the star-gazer
underscore account.
And that gives us like each repo now
has been transformed into
one of these list items.
And to make those into a single string,
I'm just gonna join them
on an empty string.
By default, if you run joining with
us commas, we don't want commas.
So just using an empty string.
And then finally, I can get an object or
we need to get an element that we can.
Insert this into.
Actually, before we write this part,
let's go ahead and create that element so
that we've got somewhere to attach it.
So in our main in HTML,
I'm going to create just another
heading that said
Recently Updated Code Projects.
And let's set this to be a Div and
we'll give it an ID of content.
And because we know we're gonna do some
script stuff, I'm going to just show this.
If we were gonna be really responsible and
handle cases where JavaScript was
disabled, we could wrap all of this and
no script and not a note.
We're not going to do that here,
because again,
we're just trying to show the concepts,
not build production apps.
So once we've got this in here, if I run
this again, I'll just run npx serve.
We'll see that we've got recently
updated code products or projects and
it's showing loading.
So, let's go make that actually work.
So we're gonna need to get this ID and
insert that mark up or writing into it.
So, start by saying const content
= document.getelementbyId and
the idea that we want to get is content,
if I could spell it right.
So now that we've got our content,
we can just set the markup inside of it.
So I'm going to do content dot inner HTML.
And I'm gonna set it to be a list.
We'll put our markup inside and
then we'll close our list.
All that on the screen,
so everybody can see it.
So, to walk through this one more time,
top to bottom, what we're doing is we've
defined the function called list repos,
it accepts a username and
once we call this function, what'll
happen it will load the repositories
from GitHub for a given username, and
store those in a variable called repos.
It'll also handle the case where something
goes wrong where we get a rejected
API request or anything like that.
Once we have our repos,
we map over each one and
convert it into a string of markup
just a list item for a bulleted list.
And we store that value in markup.
We join each of those,
created markup items into a single string.
So now we've got one
long string of list items
that is stored in this markup variable.
Then we find the content div.
It's got an idea of content on it.
And put our markup inside of it.
So we'll be showing a list.
So what we haven't done yet is we
haven't actually called this function.
And for illustrative purposes,
we're just gonna call it at the bottom.
And I'm going to put in my GitHub
username feel free to put in yours or
someone else's this is a public API,
so you can just query this.
So, now, after we've defined it, and this
is something that is a preference of mine.
But I always like to define
things before I use them, so
that it tends to help me when I'm reading
a file to not see things that I have to
like scroll at the bottom to figure
out where they were declared.
So this is just my quirk, we could also
put this up at the top if we want it.
So, now that I have called this,
we need to get it into our index.html.
So back in our index, I'm going to
write before the closing body tag
at a script tag, but
I wanna use it as a module so
I'm just gonna signify
that it's the Essex code.
And then,
I'm going to set the source to be
main.js.
And that should be that.
>> Good catch everyone.
Thank you.
And now if I reload,
we get a list of repos.
This is kind of at its core.
The simplest iteration of a jam stack app.
What we've done is we've taken
some markup some static assets,
we have used JavaScript
to hit a third party API.
And then we're getting
that onto the screen.
So we've got some kind of interactivity.
If we wanted to, we could add like an
input or something where you could put in
someone else's username and
get a new list whenever you updated that.
That would get into some, I think that
would just be a little too much for
completely vanilla JavaScript without
making this a much longer workshop.
So instead,
we're going to call this good, and
then we'll move on to our next section,
which is going to be deploying the site,
so let's get this thing
up on the Internet.
So what I will do here is
get my terminal open again.
And let's save our work.
And I'm gonna do get, let's add
everything, let's check it, okay?
So we've got our JavaScript file and
our HTML file.
I'm gonna commit and say, feature
basic and we add script.